---
title: Por que excesso de carros é ruim pra cidade
category: Urbanismo
---

What's the problem with car dependency?

Over-reliance on cars takes a toll on humanity. We have normalized their pervasive presence so much that we now find ourselves living and working in places that do more to serve the needs of cars than of people. Cars demand more of people than the benefits they provide.

Overcoming car blindness and reducing dependence on driving can help us to reconnect with nature and the human condition and boost our health, happiness, and resilience. — Alex Dyer

Here are some specific ways in which car dependency is an issue:

    Pollution — Cars are responsible for a significant amount of global and local pollution (microplastic waste, brake dust, emissions from the whole production chain and the energy used in it, tailpipe emissions, and noise pollution). Electric cars eliminate tailpipe emissions, but the other pollution-related problems largely remain.
    Infrastructure (Costs) — Cars create an unwanted economic burden on their communities. The infrastructure for cars is expensive to build and maintain, and the maintenance burden for local communities is expected to increase with the adoption of more electric and (possibly, someday) fully self-driving cars. This is partly due to the increased weight of the vehicles and also the increased traffic of autonomous vehicles.
    Infrastructure (Land Usage & Induced Demand) — Cities allocate a vast amount of space to cars. This is space that could be used more effectively for other things such as parks, schools, businesses, homes, and so on. We miss out on these things and are forced to pile on additional sprawl when we build vast parking lots and widen roads and highways. This creates part of what is called induced demand. This effect means that the more capacity for cars we add, the more cars we'll get, and then the more capacity we'll need to add.
    Independence and Community Access — Cars are not accessible to everyone. Simply put, many people either can't drive or don't want to drive. Car-centric city planning is an obstacle for these groups, to name a few: children and teenagers, parents who must chauffeur children to and from all forms of childhood activities, people who can't afford a car, and many other people who are unable to drive. Imagine the challenge of giving up your car in the late stages of your life. In car-centric areas, you face a great loss of independence.
    Safety — Cars are dangerous to both occupants and non-occupants, but especially the non-occupants. As time goes on cars admittedly become better at protecting the people inside them, but they remain hazardous to the people not inside them. For people walking, riding, or otherwise trying to exercise some form of car-free liberty cars are a constant threat. In car-centric areas, streets and roads are optimized to move cars fast and efficiently rather than protect other road users and pedestrians.
    Health (activity) – As more people spend more of both their work and free time sitting the World Health Organization has pointed to an inactive lifestyle as one of the greatest risks to public health. Cars exacerbate this problem both for the individual sitting still in their car also while traveling and for everyone who feels the streets are too unsafe to walk or bike – because of all the cars – and so choose to also use a car, or just stay at home. Many children are not allowed by their parents to travel actively but have to get driven everywhere, and many schools even prohibit biking to school. Regular physical activity, for as little as 30-60 minutes a day can reduce high blood pressure, help manage weight and reduce the risk of heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes, and various cancers according to the WHO. Not to mention the importance to mental health.
    Health (air quality) – Cars are a major contributor to bad air quality around the globe. More than 92% of the global population lives in areas where the outdoor air quality is below recommended limits set by the World Health Organization. The total cost of this comes to 2.9 trillion USD, equating to 3.3 percent of the world's GDP, according to a 2020 report by Greenpeace Southeast Asia and the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air. Exposure to particulate matter from the burning of fossil fuels like coal and oil made up 18% of global deaths in 2018 — totaling 8.7 million – according to a 2021 study from Harvard University and three British universities, published in the journal Environmental Research. There are many other sources of air pollution than cars, but already in 2010 there where over a billion cars in the world, and almost all run on fossil fuels. Norway, one of the countries that's come the farthest in electrifying its car fleet has only 16 % electric cars in 2022, according to the countries public statistics bureau. And still, even electric cars needs energy, which is often produced by burning fossil fuels.
    Social Isolation — A combination of the issues above produces the additional effect of social isolation. There are fewer opportunities for serendipitous interactions with other members of the public. Although there may be many people sharing the road with you (a public space), there are some obvious limitations to the quality of interaction one can have through metal, glass, and plastic boxes.

Here are some additional sources which also elaborate on the problem and its consequences:

    Strong Towns: The Negative Consequences of Car Dependency
    Wikipedia: Urban Sprawl Effects
